---
id: 20220907112145729
tags: ["cof", "life-plan", "goals", "social-life", "order", "future"]
---

# Having a life-plan is essential to achieve your goals (COF 01)

The average brazilian (Discussed in context, and, naturally, includes myself.)
doesn't have a life-plan, and it's controlled by the caotic patterns of his
social life. If there's no underlying plan, then there's no reason to put an
order on in your life, for there's no clear place one wants to be in the future.

Having a life-plan is much more than an organizational framework, but a
spiritual endeavor. The self you want to achieve should be the best version of
you. It's the self version that speaks to God, for we can only approach Him in
our finest state. Thus, the goals one comes up with are inseparable from
spiritual ideals.

A life-plan can be created by writing a necrology about yourself, as if you had
died after achieving all your goals. Olavo recommends one to imagine a person
that knew you in the end of your life tells someone else about your
accomplishments within your lifespan. In contrast with writing a regular
newspaper necrology, this model accomodates ordinary people who may not have
been famous, but, nonetheless, achieved their life goals. It also has a focus on
what is transparent to others, for the speaker can only tell things that he
accessed from you from his own apprehension. The length recommendation is within
20-80 lines.

Keep it mind that the exercise may be reevaluated at many points of one's
lifespan, for it's natural to one to get know oneself better in the course of
life. Some goals may change direction; others may be dropped. The most
important, though, is to always have a direction and to reitarate over it to
change it when it doesn't make sense anymore.
