---
id: 20220826233737505
tags: ["zettelkasten", "decentralization"]
---

# Questions for organizing a flexible Zettelkasten

+ **TL;DR:**
  + How to keep a "decentralized" Zettelkasten that merges physical and digital
      notes;
  + Why digital centralization is the best option;
  + Questions about decentralized indexing in physical/digital systems;
  + Opinions on randomly generated indexes for digital Kastens.

--- 

I need to configure a proper Zettelkasten system for myself. Centralizing it on
software seems to be the best solution, for software is always easy to search
and gather and, if needed to be accessed physically or backed up, you can always
print it. By doing so, you can actually have both formats, physical and digital,
always complete with minimal effort. Copying text to the computer is always a
bigger effort than just printing what was written digitally. Scanning may also
be a viable option for easy digital backing up, but it's weaker, since searching
won't work. (Unless using a super OCR that can recognize my caligraphy, but I
doubt there's any available that would be able of such a feat.)

One concern might be indexing: the system has to be sane that hand written notes
can be indexed and compatible with what already exists in the digital pool.
Also, the system must be decentrilized, so they can work individually in
parallel and merged after when syncing with each other. Maybe an indexing system
that keeps the origin of a note explicit, such as a prefix, can prevent such
classes. Thus, with the original Zettelkasten index pattern, which uses an
intercalation of numbers and letters to indicate nesting, can work pretty well.
A special charater can be prefixed that would indicate its origin, either the
physical or digital mean. A problem that remains with it is "chainable linking",
which is made by having sub-indexes for a card that continues to develop a
subject, etc.: how to merge those?

I actually prefer to use this system even in the computer. Most digital systems
use randomly generated indexes. I think it loses a level of nesting and linking
that is available with a structured index. Developing a system that can take
advantage of it would be awesome. Some may argue that, digitally, global
searching is available, thus defeating the purpose of these hierarchical links,
but I wouldn't agree. Some sub-indexes may continue a subject without having
much resemblance to its previous note.
